This takes an hour to an hour and a half. Do not rush.
All samples with cells or media separate, pipette them up and down
Two of the flasks are in Brian's shaker and the rest are in the normal one.
1. Pipette 0.5 ml out of each flask into 2 ml centrifuge tubes. When there is a lot of filter paper gunk, use the cut pipette tips. Do this twice for each flask. Shake the flasks well immediately before pipetting and pipette up and down when drawing your sample.
Look at the tip and make sure there are no air bubbles or filter paper you will get an inaccurate measurement later.
When there is a lot of filter paper gunk, use the cut pipette tips.
Close the lids of the centrifuge tubs fully.
Close the lids on the flasks but make sure the little top thing is off.
Immediately put the flasks back into the shaker.
2. Vortex the centrifuge tubes and then immediately pipette (Do not let them sit between.) the 0.5ml of liquid through the mesh on the caps of cytometer tubes (5 mL Falcon polysterene round bottom tube with cell-strainer cap).
Alternative method(replaces steps 2 - 4): use scissors and cut off the lids of the labeled centrifuge tubes (save the lids, don't bother labeling the lids because they were cut off before any liquid was in any centrifuge tube, so they can go on any centrifuge tube). Take the mesh caps off the cytometer tubes and cap them on the lidless centrifuge tubes (throw away capless cytometer tubes). Now pipette the .5ml of liquid through the mesh caps directly into the centrifuge tubes. When done pipetting, throw out mesh caps and re-cap the centrifuge tubes with the saved, cut-off lids. Now centrifuge with the 18-slot centrifuge 10 min at 8800 rpm.
Make sure to close the centrifuge tube before vortexing.
Press tip of pipette pretty firmly down on the mesh and pipette up and down in quick short movements.
Be careful of stuff splashing out though and watch for bubbles.
The goal is to get all of the fluid on the inside of the tube, if any ends up on top of the mesh, aspirate it up and try again.
If it's not going through, pipette up and down and try twisting the tube or try a different spot on the mesh.
3. After you pipette through the mesh, hand centrifuge the liquid to the bottom, a lot tends to stick to the sides.
4. Pipette up and down right before decanting the filtered contents of each cytometer tube into another centrifuge tube, centrifuge at 6000x rcf at 4 C for 10 mins. best use 18-slot centrifuge by Todd's bench, 6000x rcf converts to 8800 rpm.
5. Pipette supernatant into the corresponding cryotube (DON'T throw the pellet away!!!) and place in -20 C iGEM freezer
TIP: Hold the tip against the side of the tube to minimize any instability in your hands, then get the tip within around a millimeter of the pellet and aspirate slowly.
6. Resuspend pellet from centrifuge tubes in 1ml PBS. Remember to pipette up and down.
7. Pipette up and down while transferring 1ml into a cryotube.
8. Add 1ml 50% glycerol to each cryotube from step 7, vortex FOR 1 MINUTE to thoroughly mix, and place in iGEM box in the -80 degree freezer (It is in the stack of boxes where the rest of our boxes always are, however it is 2nd from the bottom).
If box 1 is full then put in box 2, filling from top left corner; make sure lid is lined up with box using the black corner markings.
Wear latex gloves; don't mess with freezer bare-handed.
DO NOT OPEN THE -80 UNLESS IT IS BELOW -75C SERIOUSLY. Minimize time in the -80.
Again, DO NOT OPEN THE -80 UNLESS IT IS BELOW -75 C.
9. Mark down on the table below that you have completed this measurement. Make sure to replenish any materials that ran out so that the next group doesn't have to go looking. Also leave out things like test tube racks.
